## Creating a database
To create a database, use the following command:

```sql
 mysql> CREATE DATABASE library;
```

To check that the database is created, type the following and a table with all the available databases will be displayed:

```sql
mysql> SHOW databases;
+--------------------+
| Database           |
+--------------------+
| library            |
| mysql              |
+--------------------+
5 rows in set (0,00 sec)
```

Now you’re ready to access your brand new database.

```sql
mysql> USE library;
Database changed
```

### Creating a table

You’ve successfully created your library database, but it’s still empty. Now, it’s time to add your first tables to the database. 

**The authors Table:**  
*  This table will store information about authors, and the primary key will be author_id, which is an integer. 
*  The author_id column will uniquely identify each author, ensuring that no two authors share the same ID. 
*  Additionally, the table will include a name column to store the author's name.

**The books Table:**  
*  The books table will store information about the books in the library. The primary key for this table will be book_id, which is also an integer. 
*  Along with the book title, this table will have a author_id column, which serves as a foreign key linking each book to its respective author in the authors table.
*  This relationship helps maintain data integrity by enforcing the connection between books and their authors.

To create these tables, use the following SQL commands:

```sql
CREATE TABLE authors (
  author_id INT PRIMARY KEY,
  name VARCHAR(50)
);

CREATE TABLE books (
  book_id INT PRIMARY KEY,
  title VARCHAR(100),
  author_id INT,
  FOREIGN KEY (author_id) REFERENCES authors(author_id)
);
```

### Adding data to the tables
Let's add some records to populate our authors and books tables with sample data using the INSERT statement. The following commands will bring your tables to life.

```sql
INSERT INTO authors (author_id, name) VALUES
  (1, 'J.K. Rowling'),
  (2, 'Stephen King'),
  (3, 'Patrick  Rothfuss');

INSERT INTO books (book_id, title, author_id) VALUES
  (1, 'The half-blood prince', 1),
  (2, 'The Shining', 2),
  (3, 'The Philosopher\'s Stone', 1);
```
We can check everything is working as intended by running:

```sql
mysql> SELECT * FROM authors;
mysql> SELECT * FROM books;
```